Add video call scam (#83)
badnessdotai/catalog: catalog/scammers-face-voice-clone.md

---
title: Scammers used face and voice cloning to impersonate a businessman's friend, stealing 4.3 million yuan
companies: []

> categories: ["Cybercrime"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
categories: ["Cybercrime", "Impersonation"]
```

demonstrative: false
modalities: ["Video Synthesis", "Audio Synthesis"]
models: []
date: 2023-05-24
sources:
  - "https://insiderpaper.com/china-scammer-uses-ai-to-pose-as-mans-friend-steal-millions/"
---

A businessman in China, identified as Guo, was tricked into transferring 4.3 million yuan ($609,000) by a scammer who used AI to impersonate a close friend.

> The fraudster utilized advanced technology to mimic the appearance and voice of Guo's friend during a video call, convincing Guo to transfer funds on the pretense of assisting another friend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fraudster mimicked the appearance and voice of Guo's friend during a video call, disarming Guo and convincing him to transfer funds on the pretense of assisting another friend.
```
